So I'll just take a bit of a breather
to explain what I just did there.
Because a lot of stuff just happened.
We just introduced noise and
you're probably like, what is going on?
What is noise?
This might be a refresher
if you've already,
learned about noise maybe in
another course or something.
But I'll just quickly go over what
noise is and the basics of it.
So inside of the course
repo in the primer,
the digital interactive book.
There's bit of a section on noise,
and how this kinda works.
And so if we think of a wave,
like a sine wave.
This is a function that we, we call
the function pass in some coordinate,
some value, in this case x.
And then we get back a value
that's generally between -1 and 1.
That's what the sine function gives us.
It's always a value between -1 and 1.
And so
if we pass in different values here,
we're gonna get different outputs for
the y axis.
That's what's happening.
And so if we pass in just the coordinate.
Let's just say we'll make it
really simple, y=Math.sine.
And that's gonna create this
value that slowly undulates
from down here -y all the way up to +y.
If we were to multiply this by Math.pi.
We'll see this like kind of perfect
wave that starts here, goes down, up and
then back to the center line.
Can multiply it by some higher number, 2.
And now we're beginning
to compress the wave.
The higher this number goes, the more
we're going to be compressing this wave
and creating a big sort of
change in frequency here.
This concept is called frequency.
So I just hooked up this slider here
just by saying x times frequency.
And you'll see how multiplying the input
coordinate into the wave is gonna stretch.
Either make it so
that this sine wave is stretched outwards.
Or compressed into many,
sort of, up and down waves.
The other concept is amplitude.
So this is the thing that we scale
after we get back the value that is
between -1 and 1.
So if we multiply the output of
sine by this amplitude value.
We can stretch the wave to be larger or
less dramatic.
So closer to a flatline, that's amplitude.
This other concept of phase is
just offsetting the coordinate.
So translating or adding the coordinate.
And you'll see how just adding
that is just gonna move or
translate the wave left to right.
So this is a sign wave.
And a wave function is a good
way of understanding noise.
Because noise, in this next page here,
is basically a wave function.
It's something that we have a function,
we pass in a coordinate.
And it gives us back a value.
Except instead of it being always
perfectly undulating from 0 and
then up to 1 and then down to -1 and
then back up to 0 and past 0.
It's not this smooth back and
forth thing, it's much more random.
And so each time we click this graph,
you're gonna see it's producing
a different random function.
This is the output of this input here.
And so you can see how changing
the frequency does the same thing.
It just compresses the wave.
This random noise wave.
Changing the amplitude, changes
the sort of drasticness of this wave,
how high it goes or how low it goes.
And then changing the phase just again,
just translates the wave left or right.
So this is noise.
This is one dimensional noise in the sense
that we just have one coordinate.
1D, as in, one coordinate going into it.
Two dimensional noise has two
coordinates going into it.
So here for example is an x and
z coordinate.
So we can rotate around this scene here.
We can see that by changing the frequency,
just like in this 1D,
changing the frequency
we compress everything.
Like a good way to imagine
it is you have a Slinky, and
you pull the Slinky outwards and
it starts to get more and more flat.
But if you push the Slinky back
together it starts to get more and
more rapidly changing.
That's what we're doing
here by compressing this.
And it's the same thing
with the frequency in 2D.
We're just compressing this down or
scaling it, stretching it up.
And then we have amplitude which is
how high these waves go basically.
And so, you can really think of it
like waves in an ocean, almost.
And the coordinates that go in.
So here we have x, where we also have z,
which is the other horizontal coordinate
in this 3D coordinate system.
So y would be up and down.
That's defining how high
to make these vertices, or
how low to make these vertices.
And then x and z is defining where
in this sort of floor plane,
where the coordinate would be.
And so if we introduce a third
coordinate into this noise function.
I mean, maybe we only have x,y,z.
So we already have y here which is
gonna be the how high this point is.
We have x and z, which is where the
coordinate lies within this floor plane.
But let's say we wanna introduce
a third parameter, which is time.
Now, when we modulate time, it's not gonna
just change the frequency or amplitude, or
anything like that.
It's gonna change the way it undulates.
And it's as if, this how I sort of imagine
it, it's as if you have a big rug, or
like a fabric.
And you're just pulling it on one end and
just shaking it up and down.
You're creating, like,
undulations throughout.
You're introducing this third dimension
of time and making it pass through.
And so that's kind of why we like
to use these noise functions.
Because, all of a sudden we have this
value y which is going from -1 to 1.
But it's undulating,
depending on the coordinates,
in this really interesting way.
And so
here's just another little bonus demo.
This would be creating a noisy sphere.
So, this is using 3D noise
in a slightly different way.
Which is inputting
the coordinates of a sphere and
then multiplying that by
the normal of a sphere.
Which is a bit more of an advanced demo.
Maybe we'll come back to this
at some point, but maybe not.
Anyways, that's noise.
And so what we're doing in our shader
here, is we're saying let's create
an input value that's gonna be
the coordinate of each of these circles.
And the reason we floor it is because we
just wanna get the sort of center point,
or the the corner point, of these circles.
We want the noise just to act on
each of these circles independently.
And so without this floor you're gonna
end up with this kind of wavy input.
And that's because this noise
is being applied to every
single pixel within this
region of the circle.
But if we floor it,
it’ll just give us the sort of size of
scale of each individual circle here.
And so you also have to make sure that
this value here, this q * 10 matches.
You could even pull this out,
outside of the functions.
And just make it q*10 up here.
That should work as well.